[DOCS][REFACTOR] Organize Design and Architectures (#6097)
apache/incubator-tvm: docs/dev/index.rst

    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

Design and Architecture
=======================

This document is intended for developers who want to understand the
architecture of TVM and/or actively develop on the project.
This page is organized as follows:

> - The `Example Compilation Flow Walkthrough`_ section is a walk through of a typical compilation flow explaining each component used during compilation.

Reviewer: 'Example Compilation Flow' a better name for this section.

A better description could be:
The Example Compilation Flow section gives an overview of the steps that TVM takes to turn a high level description of a model into an optimized function.

- The `Logical Architecture Components`_ section describes the logical components.
  The sections after are specific guides focused on each logical component, organized
  by the component's name.
- The `How Tos`_ section contains useful tutorials to solve specific development problems.

This guide provides a few complementary views of the architecture.
First, we review a single end to end compilation flow and discuss the key data structures and the transformations.
This runtime-based view focuses on the interactions of each components when running the compiler.
Then we will review the logical modules of the codebase and their relationship. This part provides a static overarching view of the design.

To get started, please read the `Example Compilation Flow Walkthrough`_  section first for the runtime-based view.
You can then refer to the architecture diagram in `Logical Architecture Components`_.
Each architecture component section contains a short introduction to the corresponding component
and links to detailed guides that you can dive into.

> Feel free to browse the `How Tos`_ to useful development tips.

Reviewer: It might make sense to merge these two paragraphs into the list above. It seems like we are stating the same things multiple times.

Example Compilation Flow Walkthrough
------------------------------------

In this guide, we will study an example compilation flow in the compiler. The figure below shows the flow. At a high-level, it contains several steps:

- Import: The frontend component ingests a model into an IRModule, which contains a collection of functions that internally represent the model.
- Transformation: The compiler transforms an IRModule to another functionally equivalent or approximately equivalent(e.g. in the case of quantization) IRModule.

> - Target Translation: The compiler translate(codegen) the IRModule to an executable format specified by the target.

Reviewer: Missing an s on translates

  The target translation result is encapsulated as a `runtime.Module` that can be exported, loaded, and executed on the target runtime environment.
- Runtime Execution: the user loads back a `runtime.Module` and runs the compiled functions in the supported runtime environment.

.. figure:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tvmai/web-data/master/images/design/tvm_dyn_workflow.svg
   :align: center
   :width: 85%

Key data structures
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

One of the best ways to design and understand a complex system is to identify the key data structures and APIs that transform these data structures. One we identified the key data structures, we can then de-couple a system into logical components that either define a collection of key data structures or transformations among the data structures.

**IRModule** is the primary data structure used across the entire stack. An IRModule (intermediate representation module) contains a collection of functions. Currently, we support two primary variants of functions.

> - **relay::Function** is a high-level functional program representation. A relay.Function usually corresponds to an end to end model. You can view a relay.Function as a computational graph with additional support for control-flow, recursion, and complex data structures, if you are familiar with the computational graph terminology in deep learning systems,

Reviewer 2: - `if you are familiar with the computational graph terminology in deep learning systems` seems can be removed.
- Add a period.

> - **tir:PrimFunc** is a low-level program representation that contains elements including loop-nest choices, multi-dimensional load/store, threading, and vector/tensor instructions. It is usually used to represent an operator program that executes a (possibly-fused) layer in a model.

Reviewer 2: IMHO, a better way to describe these two functions is to emphasize their relationship. For example, a relay.Function may be lowered to multiple tir.PrimFunc functions.

In addition, it would be good to have an example. We might have a Relay graph with `2 * conv2d->add->relu` (2 layers), and we show the corresponding TIR graph.

Transformations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now that we have covered the key data structures, let us talk about the transformations. Each transformation could serve one of the following purposes:

- optimization: transform a program to an equivalent, possibly more optimized version.
- lowering: transform a program to a lower-level representation that is closer to the target.

**relay/transform** contains a collection of passes that optimize the model. The optimizations include common program optimizations such as constant folding and dead-code elimination, and tensor-computation specific passes such as layout transformation and scaling factor folding.

> Near the end of the relay optimization pipeline, we will run a pass(FuseOps) to break the end to end function(e.g. mobilenet) into sub-function(e.g. conv2d-relu) segments. We call these segments primitive functions. This process helps us to divide the original problem into two sub-problems:

Reviewer 2: Should we mentioned the primitive functions we are talking about here is exactly `tir::PrimFunc`?

Many low-level optimizations can be handled in the target phase by the LLVM, CUDA C, and other target compilers. As a result, we leave low-level optimizations such as register allocation to the downstream compilers and only focus on optimizations that are not covered by them.

Search-space and Learning-based Transformations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The transformation passes we described so far are deterministic and rule-based. One design goal of the TVM stack is to support high-performance code optimizations for different hardware platforms. To do so, we will need to investigate as many optimizations choices as possible, including but not limited to, multi-dimensional tensor access, loop tiling behavior, special accelerator memory hierarchy, and threading.

> It is hard to define a heuristic to make all of the choices. Instead, we will take a search and learning-based approach. We first define a collection of actions we can take to transform a program. Example actions include loop transformations, inlining, vectorization. We call these actions **scheduling primitives**. The collection of scheduling primitives defines a search space of possible optimizations we can make to a program. The system will use then searches over different possible scheduling combinations to pick the best one. The search procedure is usually guided by a machine learning algorithm.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is hard to define a heuristic to make all of the choices. Instead, we will take a search and learning-based approach. We first define a collection of actions we can take to transform a program. Example actions include loop transformations, inlining, vectorization. We call these actions **scheduling primitives**. The collection of scheduling primitives defines a search space of possible optimizations we can make to a program. The system will then search the search space to find the best scheduling combination. The search procedure is usually guided by a machine learning algorithm.
```

> We can record the best schedule sequence for an operator once the search is completed. The compiler can then just lookup the best schedule sequence and apply it to the program. Notably, this schedule application phase **exactly like** the rule-based transformations, enabling us to share the same interface convention with tradition passes.

Reviewer 2: - Be consistent with `schedule sequence` or `schedule combination`.
- `the best schedule sequence for an operator`

If we would like to focus on AutoTVM, then `schedule combination` with `for an operator` are precise. If we would like to include auto_scheduler, then `schedule sequence` with `for a subgraph` might be more general.

We use search based optimizations to handle the initial tir function generation problem. This part of the module is called AutoTVM(auto_scheduler). We expect to expand the learning-based transformations to more areas as we continue to develop the TVM stack.

Target Translation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The target translation phase transforms an IRModule to the corresponding target executable format. For backends such as x86, ARM, we will use the LLVM IRBuilder to build in-memory LLVM IR. We can also generate source-level languages such as CUDA C and OpenCL. Finally, we support the direct translation of a Relay function (sub-graph) for external code generators. Importantly, the final code generation phase should be lightweight as possible with the vast majority of transformations and lowering performed before target translation.

Reviewer 2: s/x86, ARM/x86 and ARM/

The above example only deals with a simple `addone` function. The code snippet below gives an example of an end to end model execution using the same interface:

.. code-block:: python

   import tvm
   # Example runtime execution program in python, with type annotated
   factory: tvm.runtime.Module = tvm.runtime.load_module("resnet18.so")
   # Create a stateful graph execution module for resnet18 on gpu(0)
   gmod: tvm.runtime.Module = factory["resnet18"](tvm.gpu(0))
   data: tvm.runtime.NDArray = get_input_data()
   # set input
   gmod["set_input"](0, data)
   # execute the model
   gmod["run"]()
   # get the output
   result = gmod["get_output"](0).asnumpy()

The main take away is that the runtime.Module and runtime.PackedFunc are sufficient to encapsulate both operator level programs(such as addone), as well as the end to end models.

Summary and Discussions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In summary, the key data structures in the compilation flows are:

- IRModule: contains relay.Function and tir.PrimFunc
- runtime.Module: contains runtime.PackedFunc

> Most of part of the compilation are transformations among the key data structures.

Reviewer 2: s/Most of part/Most parts/

- relay/transform and tir/transform are determinstic rule-based transformations
- auto_scheduler and autotvm contains the search-based transformations

Finally, the compilation flow example is only a typical use-case of the TVM stack. We expose these key data structures and transformations to python and C++ APIs. As a result, you can use TVM just like the way you use numpy, except that the data structure of interest changes from the numpy.ndarray to tvm.IRModule. Here are some example use-cases:

> - Directly construct IRModule using hybrid script for compilations.

Reviewer 2: Never mention hybrid script in this document. Might need a pointer or one sentance explanation.

- Compose a custom set of transformations(e.g. customize quantization).
- Manipulate the IR directly using tvm's python API.

Logical Architecture Components
-------------------------------

.. figure:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tvmai/web-data/master/images/design/tvm_static_overview.svg
   :align: center
   :width: 85%

   TVM Architecture Diagram

tvm/support
-----------
The support module contains the most common utilities for the infrastructure, such as generic arena allocator, socket, and logging.

tvm/runtime
-----------

The runtime serves as the foundation of the TVM stack. It provides the mechanism to load and execute compiled artifacts. The runtime defines a stable standard set of C API to interface with frontend languages such as python and rust.

`runtime::Object` is one of the primary data structures in TVM runtime besides the `runtime::PackedFunc`. It is a reference-counted base class with type index to support runtime type checking and downcasting. The object system allows the developer to introduce new data structures to the runtime, such as Array, Map, and new IR data structures.

> Besides the deployment use-cases, the compiler itself also makes heavy use of the tvm's runtime mechanism. All of the IR data structures are subclasses of `runtime::Object`, as a result, they can be directly accessed and manipulated from the python frontend. We expose the PackedFunc to expose various APIs to the frontend.

Reviewer 2: - s/tvm/TVM/
- `All of the IR data structures are subclasses of runtime::Object`. (period) As a result, ...
- s/python/Python/
- Not clear about this sentence`We expose the PackedFunc to expose various APIs to the frontend.` Maybe like "We expose various PackedFunc as Python frontend APIs to access and manipulate IR data structures"?

    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

Design and Architecture
=======================

This document is for developers who want to understand the
architectures of the TVM stack and help to develop the project.
We organize this page as follows:

- The `Example Compilation Flow Walkthrough`_ section contains a guide to walk you through the components used during a compilation.

> - The `Logical Architecture Components`_ section describes the logical components.

Author: We list the area of expertise in https://github.com/apache/incubator-tvm/blob/master/CONTRIBUTORS.md for now

> - The `Logical Architecture Components`_ section describes the logical components.

Reviewer 2: Ah I almost forget this document. Then maybe we can just add a pointer to that file.

  by the component's name.
- The `How Tos`_ section contains useful tutorials to solve specific development problems.

This guide provides a few complementary views of the architecture.
First, we will review an example of end to end compilation flow and discuss the key data structures and the transformations.
This runtime-based view shows the interactions of the components when running the compiler.
Then we will review the logical modules of the codebase and their relations. This part provides a more static view of the overall design.

To get started, please read the `Example Compilation Flow Walkthrough`_  section first for the runtime-based view.
You can then refer to the architecture diagram in `Logical Architecture Components`_.
Each architecture component section contains a short introduction to the corresponding component
and links to detailed guides that you can dive into.
Feel free to browse the `How Tos`_ to useful development tips.

Example Compilation Flow Walkthrough
------------------------------------

In this guide, we will study an example compilation flow in the compiler. The figure below shows the flow. At a high-level, it contains several steps:

> - Importation: The frontend component ingests a model into an IRModule, which contains a collection of functions that internally represent the model.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Import: The frontend component ingests a model into an IRModule, which contains a collection of functions that internally represent the model.
```

We can record the best schedule sequence for an operator once the search is completed. The compiler can then just lookup the best schedule sequence and apply it to the program. Notably, this schedule application phase **exactly like** the rule-based transformations, enabling us to share the same interface convention with tradition passes.

We use search based optimizations to handle the initial tir function generation problem. This part of the module is called AutoTVM(auto_scheduler). We expect to expand the learning-based transformations to more areas as we continue to develop the TVM stack.

Target Translation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> The target translation phase transforms an IRModule to the corresponding target executable format. For backends such as x86, ARM, we will use the LLVM IRBuilder to build in-memory LLVM IR. We can also generate source-level languages such as CUDA C and OpenCL. Finally, we also support the direct translation of a relay function(sub-graph) to external code generators. Importantly, we want to keep the target translation as lightweight as possible and perform most of the lowerings before target translation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The target translation phase transforms an IRModule to the corresponding target executable format. For backends such as x86, ARM, we will use the LLVM IRBuilder to build in-memory LLVM IR. We can also generate source-level languages such as CUDA C and OpenCL. Finally, we support the direct translation of a Relay function (sub-graph) for external code generators. Importantly, the final code generation phase should be lightweight as possible with the vast majority of transformations and lowering performed before target translation.
```

We also provide a Target structure to specify the compilation target. The transformations before the target translation phase can also be affected by the target — for example, a target's vector length would change the vectorization behavior.

Runtime Execution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The main goal of tvm's runtime is to provide a minimum set of APIs to allow a user to load and execute the compiled artifact in their language of choice, including python, c++, rust, go, java, and javascript. The code snippet below shows such an example in python:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The main goal of TVM's runtime is to provide a minimal API for loading and executing the compiled artifact in a language of their choice, including Python, C++, Rust, Go, Java, and JavaScript. The code snippet below shows such an example in Python:
```

tvm/arith
---------

This module is closely tied to the TIR. One of the key problems in the low-level code generation is the analysis of the indices'
arithmetic properties — the positiveness, variable bound, and the integer set that describes the iterator space. arith module provides
a collection of tools that do (primarily integer) analysis. A TIR pass can use these analyses to simplify and optimize the code.

tvm/te
------

The name te stands for "tensor expression". This is a domain-specific language module that allows us to construct `tir::PrimFunc` variants quickly by writing tensor expressions.
Importantly, a tensor expression itself is not a self-contained function that can be stored into IRModule. Instead, it is a fragment of IR that we can stitch together to build an IRModule.

`te/schedule` provides a collection of scheduling primitives to control the function being generated. In the future, we might bring some of
these scheduling components to the a `tir::PrimFunc` itself.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   inferbound
   hybrid_script

topi
----

> While we can build different kinds of operators directly via tir or tensor expression.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While possible to construct operators directly via TIR or tensor expressions (TE) for each use case it is tedious to do so. 
```

> It is still tedious to do so. `topi` provides a set of pre-defined operators (in tensor expression or tir) in

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`topi` provides a set of pre-defined operators (in TE or TIR) defined by 
```

> numpy and common deep learning workloads. We also provide a collection of common scheduling templates to schedule those operators on different target platforms.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
numpy and found in common deep learning workloads. We also provide a collection of common schedule templates to obtain performant implementations across different target platforms.
```

tvm/relay
---------

> Relay is the high-level functional IR used to represent the end to end models. Various optimizations are supported in relay/transform. There are multiple dialects in relay to support specific perspectives of high-level optimization. Notably ones include qnn(for importing pre-quantized models), vm(for lowering to dynamic vm), memory(for memory optimization).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Relay is the high-level functional IR used to represent full models. Various optimizations are defined in `relay.transform`. The Relay compiler defines multiple dialects, each dialect is designed to support specific styles of optimization. Notable ones include QNN(for importing pre-quantized models), VM(for lowering to dynamic vm), memory(for memory optimization).
```

- **tir::PrimFunc** is a low-level program representation that contains elements including loop-nest choices, multi-dimensional load/store,
  threading, and vector/tensor instructions. It is usually used to represent an operator program that executes a (possibly-fused) layer in a model.

During the compilation, a relay function may be lowered to multiple tir::PrimFunc functions and a top-level function that calls into
those tir::PrimFunc functions.

Transformations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now that we have covered the key data structures, let us talk about the transformations. Each transformation could serve one of the following purposes:

- optimization: transform a program to an equivalent, possibly more optimized version.
- lowering: transform a program to a lower-level representation that is closer to the target.

**relay/transform** contains a collection of passes that optimize the model. The optimizations include common program
optimizations such as constant folding and dead-code elimination, and tensor-computation specific passes such as layout
transformation and scaling factor folding.

> Near the end of the relay optimization pipeline, we will run a pass(FuseOps) to break the end to end function(e.g. mobilenet)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Near the end of the relay optimization pipeline, we will run a pass(FuseOps) to break the end-to-end function(e.g. MobileNet)
```

Many low-level optimizations can be handled in the target phase by the LLVM, CUDA C, and other target compilers. As a result, we leave low-level optimizations such as register allocation to the downstream compilers and only focus on optimizations that are not covered by them.

Search-space and Learning-based Transformations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The transformation passes we described so far are deterministic and rule-based. One design goal of the TVM stack is to support high-performance code optimizations for different hardware platforms. To do so, we will need to investigate as many optimizations choices as possible, including but not limited to, multi-dimensional tensor access, loop tiling behavior, special accelerator memory hierarchy, and threading.

It is hard to define a heuristic to make all of the choices. Instead, we will take a search and learning-based approach.
We first define a collection of actions we can take to transform a program. Example actions include loop transformations, inlining,
vectorization. We call these actions **scheduling primitives**. The collection of scheduling primitives defines a search space of possible

> optimizations we can make to a program. The system will use then searches over different possible scheduling

Reviewer 4: will use them to search?

sequence to pick the best scheduling combination.
The search procedure is usually guided by a machine learning algorithm.

We can record the best schedule sequence for an (possibly-fused) operator once the search is completed. The compiler can then just lookup the best

> schedule sequence and apply it to the program. Notably, this schedule application phase **exactly like** the rule-based transformations,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
schedule sequence and apply it to the program. Notably, this schedule application phase is **exactly like** the rule-based transformations,
```

enabling us to share the same interface convention with tradition passes.

We use search based optimizations to handle the initial tir function generation problem. This part of the module is called AutoTVM(auto_scheduler).
We expect to expand the learning-based transformations to more areas as we continue to develop the TVM stack.

Target Translation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The target translation phase transforms an IRModule to the corresponding target executable format.

> For backends such as x86 and ARM, we will use the LLVM IRBuilder to build in-memory LLVM IR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For backends such as x86 and ARM, we use the LLVM IRBuilder to build in-memory LLVM IR.
```

We can also generate source-level languages such as CUDA C and OpenCL.

> Finally, we support the direct translation of a Relay function (sub-graph) for external code generators.

Reviewer: I don't really understand what this sentence means. Do you mean that you expose Relay functions in such a way that someone can use their own code generator to generate an executable?

Author: Good catch, we actually mean use external code generator to translate the some of the relay functions

> Importantly, the final code generation phase should be lightweight as possible with the vast majority of transformations
> and lowering performed before target translation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important that the final code generation phase is as lightweight as possible when using vast majority of transformations
and lowerings.
```

> We also provide a Target structure to specify the compilation target.

Reviewer: I think a little more detail here would be nice. Maybe give examples of what the Target can be. Or what the Target structure allows a user to do?

Author: Added a TODO because we haven't yet stablized the target data structure. revisit later

The transformations before the target translation phase can also be affected by the target — for example,
a target's vector length would change the vectorization behavior.

Runtime Execution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The main goal of TVM's runtime is to provide a minimal API for loading and executing the compiled artifact in a language of their choice, including Python, C++, Rust, Go, Java, and JavaScript. The code snippet below shows such an example in Python:

.. code-block:: python

    import tvm
    # Example runtime execution program in python, with type annotated
    mod: tvm.runtime.Module = tvm.runtime.load_module("compiled_artifact.so")
    arr: tvm.runtime.NDArray = tvm.nd.array([1, 2, 3], ctx=tvm.gpu(0))
    fun: tvm.runtime.PackedFunc = mod["addone"]
    fun(a)
    print(a.asnumpy())

:py:class:`tvm.runtime.Module` encapsulates the result of compilation. A runtime.Module contains a GetFunction method to obtain PackedFuncs by name.

> :py:class:`tvm.runtime.PackedFunc` is a type-erased function interface for both the generated functions. A runtime.PackedFunc can take arguments and return values with the following types: POD types(int, float), string, runtime.PackedFunc, runtime.Module, runtime.NDArray, sub-classes of runtime.Object.

Reviewer 4: and other sub-classes of runtime.Object? because module is also a sub-class of it while it is handled differently.

:py:class:`tvm.runtime.Module` and :py:class:`tvm.runtime.PackedFunc` are powerful mechanisms to modularize the runtime. For example, to get the above `addone` function on CUDA, we can use LLVM to generate the host-side code to compute the launching parameters(e.g. size of the thread groups) and then call into another PackedFunc from a CUDAModule that is backed by the CUDA driver API. The same mechanism can be used for OpenCL kernels.

> The above example only deals with a simple `addone` function. The code snippet below gives an example of an end to end model execution using the same interface:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The above example only deals with a simple `addone` function. The code snippet below gives an example of an end-to-end model execution using the same interface:
```

.. code-block:: python

   import tvm

>    # Example runtime execution program in python, with type annotated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   # Example runtime execution program in python, with types annotated
```

   factory: tvm.runtime.Module = tvm.runtime.load_module("resnet18.so")
   # Create a stateful graph execution module for resnet18 on gpu(0)
   gmod: tvm.runtime.Module = factory["resnet18"](tvm.gpu(0))
   data: tvm.runtime.NDArray = get_input_data()
   # set input
   gmod["set_input"](0, data)
   # execute the model
   gmod["run"]()
   # get the output
   result = gmod["get_output"](0).asnumpy()

> The main take away is that the runtime.Module and runtime.PackedFunc are sufficient to encapsulate both operator level programs(such as addone), as well as the end to end models.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The main take away is that runtime.Module and runtime.PackedFunc are sufficient to encapsulate both operator level programs(such as addone), as well as the end-to-end models.
```

> The main take away is that the runtime.Module and runtime.PackedFunc are sufficient to encapsulate both operator level programs(such as addone), as well as the end to end models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main take away is that the runtime.Module and runtime.PackedFunc are sufficient to encapsulate both operator level programs (such as addone), as well as the end to end models.
```

Besides the deployment use-cases, the compiler itself also makes heavy use of the TVM's runtime mechanism.
All of the IR data structures are subclasses of `runtime::Object`, as a result, they can be directly accessed and manipulated from the Python frontend.
We use the PackedFunc mechanism to expose various APIs to the frontend.

Runtime support for different hardware backends are defined in subdirectories of runtime(e.g. runtime/opencl).
These hardware-specific runtime modules define APIs for device memory allocation and device function serialization.

`runtime/rpc` implements an RPC support for PackedFunc. We can use the RPC mechanism to send a cross-compiled library to a remote
device and benchmark the execution performance. The rpc infrastructure enables data collection from a wide range of hardware backends
for learning-based optimizations.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   runtime
   debugger
   virtual_machine
   introduction_to_module_serialization

tvm/node
--------
The node module adds additional features on top of the `runtime::Object` for IR data structures.
The main features include reflection, serialization, structural equivalence, and hashing.

> Thanks to the node module, we can directly access any field of the tvm's IRNode by their name in python.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thanks to the node module, we can directly access any field of the TVM's IRNode by their name in Python.
```

.. code-block:: python

    x = tvm.tir.Var("x", "int32")
    y = tvm.tir.Add(x, x)
    # we can directly use the field name to access the IR structures

>     assert y.a == x

Reviewer 2: The reader might be confused about where `.a` comes from. Maybe a comment saying `a` and `b` are fields of `tir.Add`? We can also mention that a complete spec of IR nodes could be found at "link".

> We can also directly serialize arbitrary IR node into a JSON format, and load them back.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can also serialize IR nodes to human-readable texts in JSON format, and load them back.
```

Maybe extending the above example to show how to do that, especially how to construct an IR graph with a JSON file?

Author: The json file is not intended for reading though. The specific spec belongs to a more detailed guide in the runtime

Reviewer 2: Hmm that's true. I was just thinking this is readable. Readable doesn't mean understandable lol
Anyways, I agree with you that we don't have to say this is human-readable here.

The ability to save/store, and inspect an IR node provides a foundation for making the compiler more accessible.

tvm/ir
------
The `tvm/ir` folder contains the unified data structure and interfaces across for all IR function variants.
The components in `tvm/ir` are shared by `tvm/relay` and `tvm/tir`, notable ones include

- IRModule
- Type
- PassContext and Pass
- Op

Different variants of functions(e.g. relay.Function and tir.PrimFunc) can co-exist in an IRModule.
While these variants may not have the same content representation, they use the same data structure to represent types,

> and as a consequence, their function signatures. The unified type system allows one function variant to call into another

Reviewer 2: - Didn't understand this: `and as a consequence, their function signatures`.
- s/call into/call/

> once we clearly define the calling convention and opens doors for future cross-function-variant optimizations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
once we clearly define the calling convention. This opens doors for future cross-function-variant optimizations.
```

> We also provide a unified PassContext for configuring the pass behavior, and common composite passes to execute a pass pipeline.

Reviewer 2: This is useful and important to pass developers, so it'd be better to have an example about how PassContext is used and what it can do.

Op is the common class to represent all system-defined primitive operator/intrinsics.
Developers can register new Ops as well as their additional attributes(e.g. whether the Op is elementwise) to the system.

tvm/target
----------
The target module contains all the code generators that translate an IRModule to a target runtime.Module.
It also provides a common `Target` class that describes the target.

The compilation pipeline can be customized according to the target by querying the attribute information
in the target and builtin information registered to each target id(cuda, opencl).

tvm/tir
-------

> TIR contains the definition for the low-level program representations. We use `tir::PrimFunc` to represent functions that can be transformed by TIR passes.

Reviewer 2: s/for/to/

tvm/arith
---------

This module is closely tied to the TIR. One of the key problems in the low-level code generation is the analysis of the indices'
arithmetic properties — the positiveness, variable bound, and the integer set that describes the iterator space. arith module provides
a collection of tools that do (primarily integer) analysis. A TIR pass can use these analyses to simplify and optimize the code.

tvm/te
------

The name te stands for "tensor expression". This is a domain-specific language module that allows us to construct `tir::PrimFunc` variants quickly by writing tensor expressions.
Importantly, a tensor expression itself is not a self-contained function that can be stored into IRModule. Instead, it is a fragment of IR that we can stitch together to build an IRModule.

`te/schedule` provides a collection of scheduling primitives to control the function being generated. In the future, we might bring some of
these scheduling components to the a `tir::PrimFunc` itself.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   inferbound
   hybrid_script

topi
----
While possible to construct operators directly via TIR or tensor expressions (TE) for each use case it is tedious to do so.

> `topi` provides a set of pre-defined operators (in TE or TIR) defined by

Reviewer 2: Maybe provide the full name of TOPI here?

numpy and found in common deep learning workloads. We also provide a collection of common schedule templates to obtain performant implementations across different target platforms.

tvm/relay
---------

> Relay is the high-level functional IR used to represent full models. Various optimizations are defined in `relay.transform`. The Relay compiler defines multiple dialects, each dialect is designed to support specific styles of optimization. Notable ones include QNN(for importing pre-quantized models), VM(for lowering to dynamic vm), memory(for memory optimization).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Relay is the high-level functional IR used to represent full models. Various optimizations are defined in `relay.transform`. The Relay compiler defines multiple dialects, and each dialect is designed to support specific styles of optimization. Notable ones include QNN(for importing pre-quantized models), VM(for lowering to dynamic virtual machine), memory(for memory optimization).
```

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   relay_intro
   relay_op_strategy
   relay_pass_infra
   convert_layout

tvm/autotvm
-----------

AutoTVM and AutoScheduler are both components which automate search based program optimization. This is rapidly evolving and primarily consists of:

- Cost models and feature extraction.
- A record format for storing program benchmark results for cost model construction.
- A set of search policies over program transformations.

Automated program optimization is still an active research field. As a result, we have attempted to modularize the design so that researchers may quickly modify a component or apply their own algorithms via the Python bindings.

> customize the search and plugin their algorithms from the python binding.

Reviewer 2: - Connect to the previous sentence by adding "and".
- s/python/Python/

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   benchmark

How Tos
-------
This section contains a collection of tips about how to work on

> various areas of the tvm stack.

Reviewer 2: s/tvm/TVM/

Summary and Discussions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In summary, the key data structures in the compilation flows are:

- IRModule: contains relay.Function and tir.PrimFunc
- runtime.Module: contains runtime.PackedFunc

Most parts of the compilation are transformations among the key data structures.

- relay/transform and tir/transform are determinstic rule-based transformations
- auto_scheduler and autotvm contains the search-based transformations

Finally, the compilation flow example is only a typical use-case of the TVM stack.
We expose these key data structures and transformations to python and C++ APIs. As a result, you can use TVM just like the way you use numpy,
except that the data structure of interest changes from the numpy.ndarray to tvm.IRModule. Here are some example use-cases:

- Directly construct IRModule using the python API.
- Compose a custom set of transformations(e.g. customize quantization).
- Manipulate the IR directly using TVM's python API.

Logical Architecture Components
-------------------------------

.. figure:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tvmai/web-data/master/images/design/tvm_static_overview.svg
   :align: center
   :width: 85%

>    TVM Architecture Diagram

Reviewer: I think this could use an introductory paragraph.

tvm/support
-----------
The support module contains the most common utilities for the infrastructure, such as generic arena allocator, socket, and logging.

tvm/runtime
-----------

The runtime serves as the foundation of the TVM stack. It provides the mechanism to load and execute compiled artifacts.

> The runtime defines a stable standard set of C API to interface with frontend languages such as Python and Rust.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The runtime defines a stable standard set of C APIs to interface with frontend languages such as Python and Rust.
```

`runtime::Object` is one of the primary data structures in TVM runtime besides the `runtime::PackedFunc`.

> It is a reference-counted base class with type index to support runtime type checking and downcasting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is a reference-counted base class with a type index to support runtime type checking and downcasting.
```

The object system allows the developer to introduce new data structures to the runtime, such as Array, Map, and new IR data structures.

> Besides the deployment use-cases, the compiler itself also makes heavy use of the TVM's runtime mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides deployment use-cases, the compiler itself also makes heavy use of TVM's runtime mechanism.
```

topi
----
While possible to construct operators directly via TIR or tensor expressions (TE) for each use case it is tedious to do so.
`topi` (Tensor operator inventory) provides a set of pre-defined operators (in TE or TIR) defined by

> numpy axnd found in common deep learning workloads. We also provide a collection of common schedule templates to obtain performant implementations across different target platforms.

Reviewer 2: Should be "and"?
